---
layout: post
title: "Conclusion"
date: 2017-05-24 6:00
categories: jekyll update
---
The Ketogenic Diet no doubt has numerous benefits. It is appealing to a wide audience. Whether you are looking to lose weight, get healthier, increase your energy, or even cure cancer, this could be the thing for you. It might just make you a happier person,change your life, or at the very least make a good conversation starter. It is an interesting thing to try even if you are just curious, like me. Going through it will teach you commitment and test your will power, and you'll come out of it like you just took a cold, refreshing shower.

For me, this has been a more educational experience more than anything. I've really become aware of what kind of things we eat, what are bodies need to eat, and how they function. But besides all that, I've physically kind of "reset" my body in a way. Now that I am back to carbs, I don't feel like I need as much food. I think my body actually is better at using fats as energy, even if they aren't my primary source, because I seem to get full much quicker nowadays. Probably because it takes in both fats and carbs and uses them together (I have no idea if this is actually what's happening, though).

Ultimately, I don't think this diet is really for me. As a teenage boy it is really nice being able to eat whatever the heck I want, and I think I should take advantage of that. Plus, the immediate benefits I feel day to day really aren't worth sacrificing convenient and delicious carbs, in my opinion. From now on though, I know what makes me feel good and bad eating wise, so for the most part I will still avoid constantly eating in a way that will get me on that rollercoaster of highs and lows. But hey, if my sister makes some cookies, I'm gonna have some damn cookies. If my girlfriend wants to get icecream, I'm getting icecream.

Going forward, I think I'm going to follow a loose, modified ketogenic diet. Mr. Wright kind of introduced me to this idea when I interviewed him. He says he is in ketosis for the most part every morning, but then will occasionally eat carbs in the aftenoon. I think I'm going to keep doing butter coffee in the morning, but if carbs present themselves, I won't  hesistate. However, I will try to incorporate as much healthy fat in my diet as I can. Whereas before I might have had sun chips and a quesadilla for lunch, I might now have eggs with smoked salmon instead. I'll probably cut down on things like bagels and white bread, and add avocado to pretty much every meal. But like I said, I'm not banning carbs from my life. Carbs aren't necessarily bad for you, but highly refined and sugary things certainly are, so I'm avoiding those.

However, I'm just one type of person, and I think for many people commiting to this diet is something that could be very applicable and beneficial. For adults, it is probably more appealing. As you get older, your body does worse and worse on carbs. I know several adults who already eat this way, like my orthodontist and some friends' parents. If this interested you at all, I highly encourage you to go for it. You can do it, and you won't regret it. And if not, I still think we should all incorporate more healthy fats into our diet, and stay away from sugary things.

A big problem in modern society is obesity and being overweight, and a lot of health issues stem from that. And it all leads back to our lifestyle, and esepcailly to the way we eat. Since highly refined carbs and sugar are so addictive and our bodies use them as energy so quickly, we eat so much of them. I hope that reading this website has opened your eyes and at the very least motivated you to eat healthier. Tell your friends, tell your family, tell the world. Get the word out that fat will not necessarily make you fat. I want to change the world, in whatever way I can, and I think that this is a good start. The health industry is so massive but people don't even realize that we could all be so much healthier if we just changed the way we eat. 
