---
layout: post
title: "The Process"
date: 2017-05-24 6:00
categories: jekyll update
---

## H2 The Process:

Eat differently => Keto Flu => Ketosis

Simply put, the three stages above are an overview of what this diet will look like. First, you start eating [differently](https://wksheehan.github.io/ketogenicdiet/eating). Your body (which normally gets its energy from carbohydrates) will start being like "oh crap, we don't have any carbs to use as energy," and as a result you will start feeling bad. You will go through what's called the "Keto Flu" which lasts between a couple days to over a week depending on the person. Once your body is like "oh wait, dude, we should just use fat as energy!" then you will start feeling better and enter ketosis, where you burn fat instead of carbs for your primary source of energy. While in ketosis, you reap all the benefits of this diet.


## H2 How do I start?

I started by doing a lot of research to make sure I knew what I was doing. This website will hopefully make that part easier for you, as it is all condensed into one website. Before I started, I got a calorie counter app called MyFitnessPal on my iPhone. I kept track of my average caloric intake each day to know what I should be shooting for on the diet (because I was trying to not lose weight. If you are going for weight loss, just eat until you are full). I also go it to keep track of my calories and macronutrients while on the diet. I also took measurements of my chest, hips, thighs, stomach, and arms, to see if my muscle mass changed at all after the diet. I bought a ton of avocados, butter, and decaf coffee, plus snacks like macadamia nuts and sardines. I sort of planned out what eating each day would look like, and bought accordingly. I wasn't ultra prepared, but kind of took it day by day until I found out what worked best for me. The main thing I kept in mind was eliminating carbs and replacing it with healthy fats.

If it is taking you a while to get into ketosis, try light exercising like brisk walking and maybe a short fasting period, if you are up for it. Drinking exogenous ketones like MCT oil will also speed up the process, which you can do while fasting.

## H2 During ketosis

Once your body has adjusted and are in ketosis, you will hopefully be reaping all the benefits like constant energy, mental clarity, body recomposition, etc. You must continue eating healthy fats each day and restricting carbs. Most importantly, make sure you are getting essential nutrients from things like vegetables and enough electrolytes. However, you can start to play around with eating carbs before you work out, how many carbs you can eat a day without getting kicked out of ketosis, what it's like to exercise, and stuff like that. You could start experimenting with fasts to get into deeper ketosis, where the mental clarity stuff will really start to kick in.
